in B2B if your marketing efforts don't
resonate with ideal buyers they flop let
me share how you can hit a home run with
yours
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actual B2
marketing website and SEO tips useful
podcasts giveaways and more why not give
it a try over at businessgrowth dot
email
so I was invited onto the ABM voice
podcast I share a bunch of tips around
how to actually understand the main
problems that your solution fixes how to
make sure your messaging resonates with
ideal clients I share some lesser known
SEO and content marketing tips I also
give away my free podcasting account
based marketing strategy to interview
Target customers and build relationships
and nurture prospects and how to build a
qualified sales Pipeline with that let's
Dive In you mentioned that you take an
unusual approach to marketing content
marketing is specifically can you just
dig a little deeper into that
yeah yeah so I think I suppose when it
comes to B2B SEO got a lot of people
kind of think of SEO and they think kind
of rankings they think improving website
traffic you've only got a scroll on
LinkedIn feed for a while and you'll
probably see some Mark to post a
screenshot of their traffic increasing
through SEO and a lot of that's like BS
a lot of that's vanity and most B2B
companies I I tend to work mainly with
B2B service and tech companies and most
of those companies have a sales team and
ultimately their main goal is to drive
more qualified demo requests or
consultation requests to their sales
team and if you're just getting a bunch
of traffic from SEO that's not really
converting into qualified meetings or
demos it's almost pointless so a lot of
companies go wrong with SEO as they kind
of Target terms that are quite generic
that might bring high levels of traffic
but the intent level of the end users
the end prospects that are actually
coming to your site is often quite low
um so I like to get very Niche very
specific when we work with businesses
and really understand kind of things
like who are the exact sector that you
want to be be working with what are the
times of companies Industries and
decision makers you want to do business
with really getting in from a customer
level what are the main juicy problems
the bleeding neck problems that your
offer fixes what are the key questions
that your target market are searching
for answers for how can we build out
content for your website so you become
the go-to sector the go-to brand for
your industry so whenever a prospect at
the top of the funnel has questions
around your offer whenever in the middle
of the funnel someone's maybe comparing
you versus an alternative vendor that
you show up or whenever someone's ready
to buy right now searching directly for
your solution or best X vendor best I
don't know accountancy SRM provider Etc
whenever someone's searching directly
you show up so really considering kind
of what are your target markets
searching for when it comes to each
level of the sales funnel and making
sure your website is consistently giving
the best answers giving the best
resources giving the best information
um because a lot of SEO really is about
giving your prospects the answers that
they're searching for in the best
possible way and resonating with them so
especially since Google recently
released ee80 experience expertise
Authority trust added the extra e to the
front end
so it's a real big thing and a lot of
agencies neglect that
right it looks like the corner store of
the Cornerstone of building a great
content or seems to be finding those
juicy problems and uh like when you pick
up a client how do you go about finding
those juicy meaty complicated or like
hair on fire kind of a problem how do
you go about doing that
yeah yeah so it's there's a bunch of
ways that you can find out the problems
that you fix one of the best ways to do
it is from your sales calls or customer
success course or customer support calls
um so if you don't run sales yourself
then you can tune into sales schools
with tools like gong or chorus or
wingman or Clary whatever you use
there's a bunch of tools out there
Firefly Etc
um or if you're the founder perhaps
you're a smaller business you you might
run the schools yourself so you can do
this and what I usually suggest is to
perhaps pick out a list
um of maybe your five top customers that
you enjoy working with that fit your
idle client profile that drive good
revenue and that you get good results
for and then just ask them to either
come on a podcast or ask them to run a
quick interview with you something
similar
ideally over a recorded video call like
this and then ask them things like when
you first came to us what was the what
was the main problem that you were
facing or what was frustrating you at
the point where you realized you had an
issue that you needed to to resolve so
perhaps if you provide some type of CRM
they might have said well we're using
Google Sheets manually and it got got to
the time space where it was taking like
one hour two hours every week for our
sales team and they were wasting time or
perhaps we were manually moving data
from X to Y these kind of things and it
was causing us Prospect it was causing
our sales team time which they could
have been cold calling or cold emailing
or LinkedIn outreaching Etc and so that
was kind of kind of Tipping Point when I
realized our time was better spent on
other tasks
um and what you want to do is when you
when you ask these questions around the
problems they had you want to kind of
make a note of it if you've used cool
recording software that'll help you or
you want to make a note of those kind of
things but you also want to ask
questions like what was the Tipping
Point where you realized it got too
annoying and you had to had to fix it
because again you want to look for the
common responses here the ones that
people bring up the most and then
leverage those
um and then you can also leverage these
interviews for things like what was it
that actually made you reach out to us
because this is then going to be turned
into more of a customer success story as
well they can use for testimonials video
reviews and such and so they might give
you gold and things like oh we actually
got recommended to you or we saw your
website and really liked the fact you
had a case study on why or that you were
transparent on your website with your
pricing and your case studies and your
video reviews and all this and then you
can ask you can go on to ask things like
how do we help you fix a problem what
was the results that we achieved as a
result of working together and why would
you recommend us
um but yeah understanding what are
ideally the top three main problems you
fix so if someone asks me for example
what are the top three problems that we
effects for businesses I can recite them
straight away I can say look it might be
that you're frustrated that competitors
have had you on Google organic search
DNA traffic the other one might be
you're investing in ads or investing SEO
websites failing to convert hard-earned
traffic into a steady flow of inbound or
the third might be you're working with
an agency and but you feel like they're
not delivering on their promises or not
getting your results so
in listening or running sales calls
yourself you're going to bump into a lot
of the same problems and you'll notice
that a lot of the people will have the
similar kind of frustrations that they
come to you with so take note of those
because these are going to be really
useful for when you start creating
content be it written content video
content so you can directly address
these problems head on
interesting it looks like uh there's a
lot of overlap between what the
marketing team does and what the sales
team is doing so how do you guys like
you know what what kind of process do
you guys have to uh switch the learning
from sales uh to marketing to success
and how do you how do you do that how do
you how do you circulate that
information across the street
departments
yeah yeah I think this will probably
annoy quite a lot of people but I think
a lot of marketers are scared
um because they just kind of get
not all there's some awesome marketers
out there a lot of them I've had on the
podcast but there's some that would
never jump onto a sales school or too
scared to frighten to speak to customers
just won't do some of this kind of
detailed stuff that they actually need
to do to create content that's going to
resonate
um because if you're just putting out a
ton of media a ton of blog posts a ton
of videos ton of podcast episodes but
they're not actually resonating with
your prospects I.E they're not answering
questions your prospects care about
they're not tackling problems head on
your customers care about or they're not
giving a unique point of view on why
you're different or your thoughts on the
industry then they're not really going
to drive business results I.E inbound
leads Dem requests Etc so yeah marketers
speaking to sell so they can get with
their sales team I mean what I often
quite often suggest is maybe you meet up
with your sales team once once a month
maybe have some beers have some coffee
have some lunch whatever and then you
can do that exercise that we just talked
about so you could thrash out like this
month what are the top
I don't know top five or ten questions
that we've been asked on sales calls
that keep coming up over and over again
let's list them out
likewise what are the main frustrations
problems issues that people have less
thresh or a list of those out what is
the impact that they're having on the
business like what is what's that still
that is a problem but what kind of
impact is have it is it having is the
sales team becoming frustrated are they
missing out on Quarter Two Revenue
targets are they having to fire people
because this is such a big problem and
people's jobs on the line Etc what are
those impacts of um the thing that
happening and what's the root cause
um like what's initially causing this to
happen and that there is actually a
really cool chart that you can build
called a problem identification chart
which is taken from a book called Gap
selling by Keenan and it's basically
problem impact of problem
and root cause and if you list out those
it's a really good way of building it
out together
um and then you can build content to
attack those problems and questions head
on so whether that is blog articles or
maybe you start with the YouTube maybe
you start with the video and then you
transcribe that into a Blog article you
cut that up into short form content like
YouTube shorts Tick Tock Etc and that's
going to give you some really good
searchable content both your website
YouTube you can repurpose it for
LinkedIn
um it's a really nice exercise for
marketing and sales can work together on
interesting and uh like I mean in this
sense like you know how do you how do
you ensure that you know your your
content is super aligned with the sales
team I understand that you know we're
learning from the sales team we are
getting on a few calls we're getting
we're going to have a few viewers
understand their core problems and all
but is there also a way that you know
you're also sharing with them that the
messaging that you're putting out uh
this is a messaging that you're putting
out and this is resonating this is not
resonating what do you think is that is
there a feedback mechanism
in terms of actual messaging for like
ads and website headlines and that kind
of thing you mean yep yep yep
yeah yeah yeah so
it's always a tricky one of messaging
um and I'd say I'm far from a messaging
X but but you've only got to go on to a
few SAS Tech or similar companies
websites you look at their home page and
you'll see things like a 360 all-in-one
degree angle view of your customer
lifetime uh Sizzle dazzled like this and
it's like well I've just read your
homepage I've scrolled down for 10 15
seconds and I still have no clue what
you actually do how your solution is
going to help me or what's in it for me
or my business and there's so many sites
that do the same like that just using
jargon and there's a classic line if you
confuse you lose which couldn't be more
true for things like home page headlines
landing page headlines or advertisement
LinkedIn ads headlines Etc no matter
what the format is so using jargon that
your customers don't actually say on a
daily basis could be causing you a lot
of problems namely Revenue namely
it resonate you won't get the click
through you'll get a high bounce rate on
your website people just jump off so
yeah if you can use actual words that
your customers say when they describe
your offer or when they describe the
problem that you that they have when
they describe your service that's
powerful because if if they're regular
words they use you know it's going to
resonate or if you're maybe a startup
and you're not sure you can't go wrong
with being crystal clear
um like I I use simple words because I'm
a simple guy so I would rather say
something like I don't know
um let's say you provide payroll like
frustrated payroll um is taking eight
hours a day
um
do it all in two clicks something like
that that's just off the top of my head
like literally says like you can do two
clicks and run your entire payroll
rather than doing it with Google Sheets
something like that so
rather than trying to sound clever
trying to sound stupid start with a
clear headline or offer
um which could be the problem you fix or
the value you bring or how you help
people and then when you can start using
the actual words that your prospects or
customers use by doing those things we
talked about earlier listening to calls
talking to your sales team
getting on customer success success
schools Etc
this is wonderful time I think like the
two uh two like super uh points that
you've mentioned here like you know I
use customers what uh in your website
copy this is this is amazing and speak
here here is better than uh clever I
think uh these two like hit the home
always before the point yeah
and like a bit so I mean let's dig you a
little bit deeper into the content right
like what kind of a Content have you
found uh to be most useful to actually
drive conversions uh maybe a bit of the
funnel if someone's at the middle of the
funnel or bottom of the funnel
um what kind of content has resonated
the most uh especially the B2B context
and uh where have you found the most
success yeah I mean generally it's it's
quite a broad question why but I mean
typically if we're talking
converting prospects that we want to
talk about prospects that are in the
market if you're offer now so people at
the bottom of the funnel so if we're
talking from an SEO perspective which is
my game
um that might be someone searching for
let's say you did provide some kind of
payroll solution I don't know best
payroll company or best payroll company
for finance or best payroll company for
finance uh for a small business so
understanding what your target market is
searching for when they need your offer
or they want to speak to sales today you
want to start with what's called
capturing existing demand in the market
I.E capturing those potential clients
are quite literally searching for your
offer today that doesn't always need to
be SEO
um so SEO you'd analyze on using tools
like hrefs semrush whatever what are the
high intent
um terms that people search when they
need your offer in your in the niches
that you serve that could be long tail
keywords like I just mentioned or
shorter ones and likewise you could do
the same to capture that scoop that up
with Google ads so if you're perhaps
working on SEO in the background Google
ads will be a faster route to Market you
can get in front of people right away or
that might be through review sites which
a lot of people neglect because review
site aggregation sites show up so well
on Google I can see you're not in your
head so you'd probably agree
um so things like G2 cap Terror
um clutch there's a bunch of them those
sites are annoying man because they rank
so well because they have so much
content on them they're often like top
three in the organic search results so
you can pay to get sponsored listings on
those sites and then making sure then
you've got relevant landing pages for
those search queries that match user
intent I talk about the problem you fix
quickly that's relevant to that search
query
um talk about kind of how you're going
to help them relevant to that offer
maybe share some case studies maybe
answer some common questions that you
get around the offer handle the
objections that you commonly get around
that offer within the copy maybe share
some qualification points maybe the
pricing and then social proof
testimonials video reviews and then
clear Next Step call to actions book a
demo request to call whatever call to
action is relevant
interesting I think uh like I mean I
completely agree with you on the review
sites I've been on like about 10 calls
and I think uh I've asked at least the
customers I mean this is the sales calls
and I think uh eight out of ten times
the prospect has checked you out on G2
or captera uh like in one way or the
other I mean it might be the first step
it might be the third fourth or fifth
step but I think it's definitely there
they want to know if someone's already
using you they want to know if you're
trustworthy or not and I think you hit
the home uh you hit that point home
all right and so let me let me just
shift the gears a little bit I think uh
we so we we are an AVM company and uh I
want to like understand your take on
personalization and uh your take on
taking a few accounts and they're just
going very specifically after them like
uh what do you think about this and like
what has been your experience on this
yeah yeah yeah so APM I can tell you my
take on ABM because I'm I'm a bit of a
Noob on ABM to be up front like I say my
game is I'm General B2B marketer and I
do a lot around SEO and websites
um that said
I do run a ABM strategy that people can
still that's very simple and very
straightforward which is so with my
podcast business growth show
um when I started the podcast say three
years or so ago I literally did it for
my own learning so I just interviewed
entrepreneurs
kind of sales leaders marketing leaders
I just wanted to learn from steal ideas
which was fine
um it was it was an interesting
interview but it didn't really drive any
revenue for our business
then about a year and a half in I
thought I better start taking this
seriously and I actually wanted to drive
qualified pipeline for our company so I
made a list of Target accounts like
funded SAS companies funded tech
companies service companies
listed down um kind of who is their
marketing leader who's a VP of marketing
CMO Etc and then started reaching out to
them on LinkedIn and so look I run a top
100 B2B marketing podcast would you be
against a conversation on on the show
here's some recent guests is it worth
the chat
99 of those people said yes
um so that was warm conversations with
ideal clients we had a great
conversation on the show
um I because I've been doing the show a
lot I'm not afraid to challenge them and
question them on their area of expertise
we give a a great show for our audience
we then repurpose it for LinkedIn
YouTube audio podcast our email list
all kinds of different um media formats
we make a Blog article on it we promote
the hell out of it and give them a guest
kit on finish and then we'll just keep
in touch we'll say look
how we how we find in our case we might
drop in that look we have a lot of
similar folks with perhaps struggling
with Organic search to make organic
Casio a top Revenue driver just curious
what you're doing in your organization
to make that happen and they might say
they're all covered for now or we might
keep in touch on LinkedIn and then when
they're ready they'll reach out to me so
that is a a technique that you can quite
literally steal from me and it's it's
pretty much free of charge let alone you
take your time
I'm going to ask you one I'm going to
repeat the question did you just say 99
of them replied did you just say that
no 99 of the people that I asked roughly
would um would say yes
man that's some amazing number of that I
haven't seen that kind of a conversion
rate like like it forever I've I've
never heard anybody say something like
that and I think uh that's amazing uh
that you know you
it's because most Outreach for I don't
know if you get many requests for this
podcast I imagine you do for guests and
speakers and so do we like we get like
one or two people ask us to come on our
show every day but most of the Outreach
emails are awful like they're literally
like a wall of text talking about how
great the speaker is whereas when I do
an Outreach request it's usually on
LinkedIn and it's painfully short it's
like one line
it's like um literally like say the
nameless Steve like Steve um been
enjoying your content on X I would love
to have you uh on my top 100 B2B
marketing podcast you against the
conversation painfully short request
nearly always gets accepted and then if
they don't respond I might just nudge
them and say look here's a link
um we recently had this person on that
they might know and then they'll
probably either say I mean yes let's do
it or the odd person will say no
I I'm gonna steal that for our podcast
Outreach I mean I'm gonna steal this
exact strategy
um
like how are you doing it yeah yeah
okay so I mean let's shift gear a little
bit and I think let's talk about like
you know what everyone's talking about
today I think the past six months I
think everybody's saying that hey SEO is
dead AI is your research generative
experience is here uh the chat version
of the search is here uh what's your
take on this
everything's dead according to LinkedIn
SEO is dead cold calling's dad abm's
dead demand Jen's dead paid search is
dead review sites I don't know if
anything's still alive according to
LinkedIn
um
in all seriousness yeah I mean
usually when I see posts or videos it's
usually when someone says something's
dead they want to push their own agenda
so someone might say SEO is dead but
demand gen is like alive and well and
this is why you need to invest
everything into building demand as
opposed to capturing it with SEO and
it's like well AI I think AI is going to
change a lot of things for the better so
for example like Google are rolling out
things like perspectives they said in
the next couple of weeks so instead if
you have a question I I don't know how
do I get ripped how do I get a six-pack
or how do I lose weight in this amount
of time or what are the right foods to
eat for this all those kind of questions
or how how do I create a blog post that
generates kind of real demo requests I
don't know something like that instead
of just traditionally having to type in
that search query then true or free
maybe three or four articles on the
first page you might get you click the
perspective tabs and then you might get
things like video results or shorts
video shorts or Reddit threads or Forum
threads so I think that kind of
introductions can be really useful
because people can get relevant content
that answers their query fast
in terms of the AI search results I
don't think anyone knows exactly how
that's going to look but that is going
to be interesting I'm just hoping that
it doesn't take up too much of the uh
the top fold but we shall see I think a
lot of it's going to impact kind of more
let's say information searches I.E
people early in the funnel that are
searching for questions or problems Etc
um which would probably be a good thing
so it gives them kind of an automated
response where they don't have to click
through a site and then maybe two or
three articles on the right hand side
that give more detail and then the
traditional results underneath so I
think that's going to be good from what
I understand so far kind of higher
intent searches that we talked about
earlier I.E when someone's searching for
a specific solution a specific company
or a specific offer in a in a niche
then um I don't think they're going to
be impact impacted quite so much and
naturally Google aren't going to want to
give up their advertisement space and
they're not going to want to give it all
to AI so there'll still be some space
for organic results it just means that
you're going to have to fight harder
with the content you put out to make
sure it generally is written by people
with Hands-On expertise and experience
in the subject matter and also gives
people the answers and information and
kind of serves them with what they need
quickly and build trust with them
so I think the the content game is gonna
need to be stepped up a lot
so you I mean let me connect the two
things that you just said right I know
one thing is I mean you have to up your
content game the other thing that you
just mentioned is like you know you
repurpose the hell out of any content
that comes in like how do you see these
two coming together and playing out like
and do you have uh like a playbook for
Content repurposing that this audience
can actually go ahead and steal
sure you can just type mine
so I I do a bunch of weird things but
most of the time
I do a lot of what I said earlier in
this recording so if I get questions on
sales calls that I think other people
are going to have or that I haven't
heard before or that I get quite a lot I
just go on my iPhone Notes app just
write it down there
um
if I get a problem that someone's facing
um again I will write that down on my
iPhone Notes app
um if I interview a marketer and they've
kind of raised something interesting
I'll do the same
um if I discover something in my own
learnings I.E like today we recently got
kind of one of our competitive Pages
kind of top three organic search
um I wrote a Blog about that
um so basically anything that happens to
me on sales calls learnings Etc I
usually write down on the notes app and
then quite a lot of the time off first
if it's got enough depth behind it I'll
record a solo episode from a podcast
um just as a video
then I will
put that out on the audio podcast as
well then I will chop that up into a
bunch of YouTube shorts
um and then that can also be transcribed
into a Blog article that blog article
you can then take the kind of
interesting paragraphs out of it and
repurpose those into a LinkedIn post
just make sure they're well spaced out
you've got a good hook I.E the first
line first two lines of the post to
actually make people click read more
um so that alone is what maybe five or
so six or so different ways and to kind
of sync up content ideas and then
repurpose them and that's quite fairly
straightforward there's even a tool
called Opus AI which is really cool
where you can just paste your YouTube
links and it cuts up YouTube shorts for
you it's quite nice just seeing that
someone was just starting uh in B2B
marketing like you know what what advice
would you give them and I know hey this
is how you should go about thinking
about V2 marketing this is how like
you go about building your career in B2B
marketing like and what what kind of
advice uh would that be
there's a law
um but it's tough to do one thing I
think
one thing I've probably got a couple
pieces of advice one is Think Like the
CEO
I you want to you want everything you do
you want to prioritize your tasks on
what's gonna drive Revenue always think
to yourself will this actually
positively impact Revenue
um and that's how you should prioritize
the work you do
then you want to if you want to kind of
really learn B2 marketing run your own
experiments so you might think yeah I
can just get out get by being a
marketing exec to start with maybe you
start out as a marketing exec or a sales
executive company thinking kind of tip
on buy and get to where you wanted by
just doing your nine to five or no the
the reason I got
kind of some kind of progress I'm not
saying it's been that far yet is did a
lot of stuff outside of that so listen
to Industry relevant podcasts
um read a bunch of books sales marketing
entrepreneurship
started my own podcast starting your own
podcast is literally a university life
hack it'll save you 20 grand on
University fees and you can literally
just invite people that you want to
learn from and steal everything they
know and gain your own audience at the
same time
um
but yeah that experiment your own
marketing side experiment could be start
your own blog article it could be start
your own website start your own Ecom
store
um I don't know you start a gum Road
guide on something you're passionate and
have some expertise on that others might
want to know or you start a YouTube
channel just something you can start on
the side that's going to give you
hands-on experience which is going to
look good on your CV it's going to be
something that you can experiment with
it's going to build on your own
learnings
and that is probably one of the best
ways to
grow
the reason I ask that question Sam is
that I saw that you know you grew from a
business development executive in the
same company to now a co-owner like how
did that even happen like
oh yeah don't don't follow the migrate
I've
I've actually I think that was about 12
or 13 years ago where I started a web
Choice and then I think I came and left
the company maybe three times because I
was doing sales I was doing marketing
and I was young like I was a young kid I
didn't really know what I wanted to do
had a bunch of jobs in between
and then eventually came back say four
or five years ago and then realized they
actually wanted to make a good career
out of it so that's when I started doing
those things like I said like listening
to podcasts reading books started my own
podcast and kind of built up my own
education in the field and then thought
well
less Ram as we ramp up monthly recurring
revenue for the business as we onboard
more website and SEO clients I want to
become kind of a bigger part of this so
bought in as a founder and
here we are today it's the short story
we would have loved to uh go a little
bit deeper but uh thanks uh for
everything that you've shared with us
this time I think I'm going to steal a
few Snippets out of this I'm definitely
going to uh like rip off a couple of
Frameworks and I think use it for our
own business
uh and yeah I mean if there is anything
else that you want to add to our
audience uh please feel free to go ahead
and share no I mean that that's pretty
much it if you're on LinkedIn just
connect with Me Sam Dunning there I
shared website and SEO and B2B marketing
tips daily
um if you want more free advice then
check out my podcast business growth
show or if anything that you've heard
you are a bit frustrated with I
competitors are above you on Google
organic search whenever people search
for your offer or your website's not
converting a steady stream of demo
requests or calls for the sales team
then we might be able to help our site
as webchoiceuk.com and there you have it
I hope you found this episode of use as
always if you did a quick subscribe on
YouTube or rating and review on your
podcast channel is appreciated and with
that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers